# word-cross-game
A simple word fill game

User guide:
When the program is launched, a simple initial game board is presented to the user. The user can then play this game while the next board is generated, a progress bar located at the bottom of the screen shows the generation progress of the next board.

The objective of the game is to fit all of the words presented on the left side of the screen into the spaces provided on the game board. Words on the game board are read from left to right or top to bottom. There is guaranteed to be at least one correct solution to any generated puzzle. To play the game the user must hover the mouse pointer over a blank space and typing a letter to put it into the highlighted space. The user can also hover the mouse over a tile and press backspace to clear that tile. When words are written on the board, they are automatically crossed off the words list on the left side of the screen. When all of the words have been crossed out, a winning animation will be played, this animation can be closed and reopened by clicking anywhere on the screen. A new board can be generated by pressing enter when the progress bar at the bottom of the screen is full.


Techniques demonstrated:
Asynchronous programming using modern threads in c++17
- The next game board is generated on a slave thread in the background while the user plays the current level

Smart pointers
- The active and background game boards are tracked using shared pointers to ensure safety from dangling pointers and memory leaks while enabling the active board to be easily swapped with the reserve board
- The slave thread is pointed to using a unique pointer to ensure safety from memory leaks when deleting and re-initializing it.

Usage of the OpenGL API
- All graphical aspects of this program were accomplished using modern OpenGL with custom shaders and a variety of c-style buffer object handles.

Usage of static and dynamic libraries within Microsoft's Visial Studio 2019 IDE
- The GLFW library is linked statically and used to construct a cross platform window and input handles.
- The GLEW library is linked statically and used to gather the OpenGL extensions supported by the current computer system and provide prototypes to them.
- The YSE library is linked dynamically and is used for loading and playing sound effects.
